# about me
This is kind of a weird thought on my part. Just thinking if GitHub will host stuff/be around for a while, not a bad place to put my "current mental state"/dreams/aspirations/etc...

I came from the Philippines, personal problems/luck/trauma/sadness/I'm here. I got educated as I was severely behind age-wise. Had a good childhood in Alaska/Wisconsin/New York.

Currently at age 28 I am an SWE in the midwest, mostly doing frontend(ReactJS/Rails). About 6 years ago I pretty much failed out of school... I was not focused, I was in a phys-eng co-op program and yeah... I was more concerned about going out/FOMO than my studies. At the time I was not really into computers... well before 2013 anyway. Mostly I just used it for some minor gaming like in 2007(Runescape) and a little later(Bioshock) but I never had a gaming computer because I couldn't afford them. A classmate actually sold me his older "gaming" computer that had like a Radeon 128MB card or something... it's back then when DDR2/20GB HDD was a thing. So yeah... I was building rc planes a lot that was my passion, those were the days where I genuinely felt happy being outside/flying. This was in the "early days" of FPV in 2012. It was kind of funny as at that time I couldn't afford these parts. The one day I finally had everything and my plane was ready(twin boom pusher) I was disappointed... when you see FPV videos it's usually the secondary footage and what you actually fly with in real time is the TVL camera with 480p or whatever... but yeah. I enjoy the flying/aerodynamics aspect more than piloting FPV.

So then I get the idea of trying to get rich by making high traffic websites... I learned HTML/CSS/JS/PHP/MYSQL (LAMP stack) and start to make some stuff... I had some really stupid/non-validated ideas... I just had like Silicon Valley/startup/Social Network thoughts in my head at the time but I failed... I remember sitting in a random desk on a random floor in a big university building (University at Buffalo timeline) and reading about how a guy made a million dollars selling ads for a million pixels... I was listening to White Walls by Macklemore at that point. I just bought into this insane money fantasy... somehow I would pull it out of my ass which did not happen. I was washing plates then got into a data entry role that paid a little more. But then I decided to escape/run away by bailing on my life. My finances imploded, credit score hit in the low 350's.

Quick anecdote here:

In 2013 or so... at the time I was using like GoDaddy... didn't know how CSR/SSL worked, how to host stuff on my own VPS servers etc... just before I completely ate it financially I spent a lot of time just learning... I had the freedom since the frat house I was living in at the time had low rent. So I had time... and I learned a lot. I was trying to build dating sites and what not like I had the domain `dn2d8.com` at one point ha. This was a good time though ability to have freedom/time to learn. This was the time when I started to really figure out the backend eg. prepared statements so I had the LAMP stack under me at this point. Then after I crashed my car into a curb while trying to drift on ice... I was broke/left for MO with like $1K in my pocket. That was a long bus ride from NY to MO.

I moved out to the midwest where my friend was stationed at an AF base. I slept on his couch for a bit... tried to do some freelance work, I got hits... but out of all the work I did say 12+ jobs... it only made me over $1K so it wasn't something I could live on... I had to work in a factory... then when we moved out to KS I worked in a kitchen again washing plates... then I got lucky and an agency hired me. That's where I did just over a year of heavy frontend/Wordpress work. Then I got lucky and was pinged for a position to work as a "senior software engineer" and I was like "that's not what I am" and also kept saying "I don't have a degree" but I still made it/got the job... the pay increase was insane to me. I had never made this much money before... this is more than entry level engineering jobs. Granted I'm a contractor/have no healthcare/etc... so I do eat it still.

Will note some anecdotes about traveling:

I didn't have a car for a while. I was a dumbass when I was younger. I just had things handed to me you know. I ddn't have brand new/expensive-ass cars but I had a car. I got help to buy em... but I did not understand their utility/value at the time. So yeah... for a while I had to ride a bike like a jackass. There were a few times I'd come out of the factory and it was dark af... I would ride through this road, let me get a pin actually. This spot right here on [Oak Grove Ln](https://www.google.com/maps/place/38%C2%B043'58.7%22N+93%C2%B017'23.0%22W/@38.7329671,-93.2908243,456m/data=!3m2!1e3!4b1!4m23!1m16!4m15!1m6!1m2!1s0x87c385eeebe054e5:0x81c1a5a5ac747a1c!2s616+S+Barrett+Ave,+Sedalia,+MO+65301!2m2!1d-93.2447903!2d38.7060427!1m6!1m2!1s0x87c38e6c58680557:0xd27a297ca60ed68e!2sTyson+Foods+Inc.,+Whitfield+Road,+Sedalia,+MO!2m2!1d-93.322436!2d38.7500737!3e0!3m5!1s0x0:0x0!7e2!8m2!3d38.7329646!4d-93.2897305) it was flooded... I had to back out, go around and find another way. It was pitch black then. I would ride this route to the Tyson factory. Then for the agency job I had to ride a bike [30 miles a day man...](https://imgur.com/cOZWquX) that was brutal. I'm not a pro cycler and I had to go on roads a lot which was not fun/I felt insecure/in the way. It would take 3 hours of my day to do that traveling... I got to go through a lot of podcasts though/read a book like the Eccentric Orbits one about the Iridium constellation. Luckily later on another friend of mine fronted me $3K to get a car which I bought a peice of crap one that literally broke a few miles out of the lot... I probably sunk more than $10K into that car... yeah was dumb.

Now I support some of my family in the Philippines. I keep working towards my goal of FIRE but mainly I want the freedom to build stuff. My fantasy I think at the moment is to own property in some "desert-like" area and build robotics/have them roam around autonomosly on the land whether in the air or on the ground. Generally just make more stuff.

Super future thoughts/interests:

* GAI
  * perhaps not full sentience either who can do that?
  * drones that roam the oceans
* AR
* Space
* consciousness transfer into machines(haha)

Will note I owe everything to my older sister and her mother for taking care of me/giving me the chance to have a life. Hate to melodramatic ha but they had no reason to care for me.

# Through the years
I am feeling moody right now, the words will flow.

### < 2003
I was in the Philippines/Hong Kong/some other places (Sailing Yacht). I was born there, American father/Filipina mother. I was very uneducated and aside from the abuse I went through (step mother) I had good folks around me. My father had a stroke and was taken to the US. This is pretty much when he really died because his brain ate shit, was like a child when his strokes were done with him. The male side of our family has this going for it, I'm next in line ha. It was lucky I was taken too. Two people took me in (half-sister and her mother who became my mother as in raise me/took care of me). I don't know why they did it, I ask them time to time.

### 2003 (10 yrs old)
I now live in Alaska. I caught up in education with Sylvan learning enter. I was trying to make my own toy airplanes at this point. I sculpted a foam airplane and connected a 9V battery to an rc truck motor (dumb). The airplane sucked at flying. My sister was in the Air Force and there were 3 bases so I saw a lot of aircraft.

### 2003 - 2006
We move to Wisconsin. I live here for a few years. Had great teachers. Played football/basketball was not that great and was in choir. This was a great childhood time for me. I pretty much lived/existed on a few blocks of property between our house and the school. I had a PS2 and Starwars 3 Revenge Of The Sith was a new game. I was working on airplanes at this point, I learned how swashplates worked on an rc helicopter/was trying to make my own. We had an air rocket contest and our rockets were made of magazines, mine flew the farthest I won a compass lol.

### 2006 - 2016
I now live in New York. Live with two "nephews" by law, though one's older than me. Other one is gone unfortunately (died recently). Finished middle school/high school here and went to college here (failed out too). SUNY Fredonia 2010-2012 Phys-Engineering co-op major, had low 2.# GPA at the end of the two years. Had another chance to try again in 2013 at University at Buffalo but failed out there as well. At this point I had tried to switch to comp sci and started taking some intro courses there like logic, discrete and Java. I was a bad student but I did enjoy the CSE-241 course (logic) eg. designing an ALU. Around 2013 is when I got the bug/itch for web dev. Really I was trying to manifest an escape from me failing out of school and having all this debt. At the time $30K was a big number to me. One of those things is making high-traffic websites and making money through ads (which I now hate and won't use on my own stuff given a choice).

I had a great childhood here too. I felt truly at peace many times flying my airplane by myself. Here's [an example](https://vimeo.com/user428018). I also was part of a lot of RC communities and people were very kind to me eg. sending me parts/buying me an rc plane/heli. I was building rc submarines out of peanut butter jars at this time as well, couldn't figure out the radio dying when going under the water.

The peace of mind (referencing the video above) it's the experience. I didn't have money but I pursued this hobby relentlessly. It seems like a waste of time now... sanding down an airplane from a block of foam and just tossing it into the sky over and over but yeah... [I still fly when I can](https://youtu.be/GpJnvB8M3j0?t=14). My aim is to end up having a piece of land somewhere and do stuff like this.

### 2016 - now
My finances imploded at this point. The fraternity I was part of was very helpful with regard to cheap rent. I spent a lot of time learning/making things web-dev related. I was unemployed and tried to escape my life/reality by crashing with a friend who was living in MO. He was stationed at a base there though from PA originally. I was unemployed for a while, my friend was patient but eventually I did have to work. I did some freelance web stuff but did not make that much money. We eventually move to Kansas where I am now. I finally break into a real full time job at a web agency from labor work eg. I was washing plates and freelancing "full stack developer" back then was the hot term. I was even part of a German team that found me on Hacker News briefly but they let me go as I took too long on my tasks. This was in 2017 so I didn't have much professional experience yet. I was getting tired of my job of making PSDs for Wordpress so I got on LinkedIn. I don't know why/how but people thought I was good enough to work as a software engineer contractor. I did that for 2 years 4 mos. I wanted to do something new but a few months from this, took over a role on the side for some company. We're doing something now but it's not 100% public yet.

Anyway my general plans are probably mentioned above but financial independence is #1 and then to pursue (self) learning (not school). I was fortunate to grow up and have an American childhood. But recently (couple years ago) I made contact with people with the Philippines and have been helping them. I mean they are still living on dirt with crappy internet and no water... so I helped them get a well and I support them monthly.

I eventually hope to get into some kind of robotic/hardware-software type job. That would be cool or I'll be financially independent and do it myself but still. There is a lot to do.

I will also note I unfortunately was a jackass a few too many times in my life. Sorry about that. Also just lack of self-awareness/cringe moments. Really dumb decisions.
